recording. There we go.
All right, folks. Let's get this show on
the road. January 28th, uh, regular
board of finance meeting. Call to order.
We'll start with the pledge of allegian
7 o'clock. Sorry. We'll start the pledge
of allegiance. Pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America
>> and to the republic for which it stands.
One nation,
>> indivisible,
indivisible,
>> liberty and justice for all. Let me just
roll.
>> Okay. So, our agenda, uh, first we'll do
public speak. We'll go around. Um, and
again, Jim, are you going to drop off?
What's What's your plan here before I
start the the rest of this?
>> So, I can Jeff is actually hosting also,
so he can stop the recording and end the
meeting. Okay. That's okay. Or I can
switch and make you a host.
That's okay. I mean, that's fine by me
either way. Whatever works best for you.
Um, and again, like I got your email if
you need to drop out. Okay, understood.
>> I may just hang and just you I'll just
come back when you're done.
>> Fair enough. Okay.
Uh, okay. So, I'll go around um for
public speak. Uh, Marcy,
>> hi. No, no, thank you.
>> Okay. Uh, Melissa,
>> I'm good, thank you.
>> Okay, great. Uh, and I mean, uh, Lisa, I
guess I don't know if you qualify.
Uh, you're here as our new, uh,
treasurer, I take it.
>> Yes, I am. Um, thank you for having me.
Um, Jeff, is this when I'm supposed to
like just
>> Okay.
>> Am I supposed to say I have never done
one of your meetings, so I wasn't sure
if this is public comment or or do I
introduce myself or
>> It's public comment. Really?
>> Listen, I'll I'll do public comment. I'm
doing public comment. Everybody, this is
Lisa Jablonsky. She is the new treasurer
of the town of Andover. She uh started
last week. Uh she's trying to get
situated in her surroundings. We've been
trying to work on getting her email set
up and getting her a computer. Um, she
has a computer in the office. Um,
you know, I I can't tell you how happy I
am to have Lisa in as the treasurer's in
the treasur's office. I think it's going
to be very positive for us. Um, we need
to start getting consistent information
for both boards. Uh, and uh,
I think Lisa is a great hire.
Welcome aboard, Lisa.
>> Thank you. Thank you all.
>> Yeah, welcome, Lisa.
>> Yeah, I'll second that. I I actually got
to meet her and chat with her twice very
briefly, and it's all looking good so
far.
>> Yeah, once I get like Jeff said, once I
get acclimated, it Yeah, I have the
email now. I have the desktop, I have
Quickbooks now. So,
>> yay.
>> Trying to get in there and get something
done. Yeah.
>> Lisa, can you share a little information
about yourself?
>> About myself? Yeah.
>> Um I was with the town of Salem as their
finance and HR director for 10 years.
Before that I was with the town of
Preston with their um school, the
Preston
public school, but it was the K through
K through five, the Veterans Memorial.
Um I've worked on a couple CPA firms.
I've worked um for a domestic violence
nonprofit. Um, so I've just got this
wide variety of I did a lot of insurance
in Massachusetts commercial insurance t
municipality insurance. Um, so I'm aware
of um the risks. Um,
trying to think
I come from Western Mass in in the hills
of the blueberries. Um, so you won't see
me for two weeks in in July and August,
but um I'm in Coventry and I have six
grandkids and and um an elderly mom that
keep me busy when I'm not working for
you. So
>> Okay. Well, welcome.
>> Thank you.
>> All right. Um Jeff, do you have anything
further before I move along?
>> Oh, no. I'm sorry. Yep, you're all good.
I just wanted to introduce Lisa. Oh, no.
Fair enough. And you know, I'm glad some
of you have met her. We were going to
try to put something together. It was
just the scheduling this week got, I
think, got crazy and with the snowstorm
and everything like that and my
availability. So, but pleased to meet
you, Lisa.
>> Thank you.
>> Um, can I one quick one? Uh, I got a
message from Joanne Heert. She can't get
in. Can somebody let her in? Whoever's
driving.
>> Yeah, I just did it. I I a I apologize
to Heather and to Joanne and to the
community voice channel and uh probably
Jody.
>> They're all in it.
>> I have to pay attention. I'm not I'm not
used to driving. Uh Robert, so you're
going to have to sit there and cut me
some slack.
>> Never done it. Understood. I I hear you.
Um okay. So we were wrapping up public
speak. Joanne, did you have anything you
wanted to uh
say at the outset here?
>> No, thank you. Um, sorry to have missed
what everybody else said, but that's the
way it goes. But no, I'll just listen.
>> We're mostly just welcoming our new
treasurer.
>> That's fine. I was just early tonight.
No problem. Thanks.
>> Okay. Uh, and uh, Jody, did you have uh
something you wanted to mention at
public speak?
>> No, I'm just here to listen and if you
have questions, I'm here.
>> Okay. Thanks.
>> All right. Uh changes in addition to the
agenda. I actually do have one myself.
Uh I got an email regarding setting up
the RAM budget presentation
uh from Jim had emailed me about this.
Apparently the suggested dates and and
actually I wanted to run this past Jeff
uh were we have meetings scheduled on
the 11th and 18th of February. I think
that are joint sessions with the board
of selectmen. And the inquiry was, would
either of those be a good date? I have
no particular objection to that. Um, but
since we have a our first selectment
here, I I just wanted to bounce it off
you as well, Jeff, if you had thoughts.
>> No objection to that. I think it'd be
great. Do it on the 11th or the 18th.
Wouldever make sense for the rest of the
board.
>> Okay. Um, my inclination would just go
for the 11th, then we'll just get it
done.
>> Um,
>> and what what was that again? the RAM.
Uh
>> the RAM superintendent will be
presenting their budget to us.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Yeah, that's a yearly thing. Um it's
nice to get it out of the way, hear what
they're looking for, what our levy is
going to look like, maybe if it passes,
obviously referendum, um cost drivers,
etc. That sort of thing. To
>> let you guys know, the board of ed has a
meeting on the 11th.
>> The board of ed does.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
Um,
okay.
>> 11th another scheduled meeting. So, no,
it's not. It's a special meeting, right?
It's a special
>> Do it do it on the 18th.
>> 18th. I won't be here, but that that's
okay. It's
>> that's our first budget meeting. That's
one of our our budget meetings.
>> I know.
>> I'm not saying it's a problem. I'm just
pointing out
>> it's a problem. I It's a long story, but
I'm gonna I'm gonna miss the 18th, so
I'm sorry.
Understood. Things happen. Um, all
right. We can go we can look at the 18th
then. That's fine by me. I don't have a
rejection to that. Um, okay. So, um, I
thought I saw Nick raised his hand. Do
we Are you all right there, Nick? Is it
was
>> I was just curious. Is this similar to
the meeting we had Monday with the
budget
that was on the uh board of education
presented the budget? Fine.
>> That was the board of education.
It's the RAM board, the regional the for
the middle high. Okay. Them explaining
to us what you know their budget's
looking like. Now that's a separate
process from the way AES works, right?
So we have because we're a regional in
the middle high. What happens is they
present their they work with their
budget. There's a RAM board of ed. Each
town has certain number of
representatives. Unfortunately, we're
the smallest town so we have the fewest
on that board. But they put together
their budget and that gets voted on
separately. uh it's a separate
referendum that occurs for the RAM
operation budget and simultaneously you
vote on the RAM uh capital budget. If
those pass then it's locked in like we
can't do anything about that. So that's
one of the things what makes a RAM kind
of really important to us and knowing
what's coming down the pike is important
to us because once it's done it's done
it's you know usually something like a
third of our budget so pretty big deal.
Um, so anyway, that's they typically
each year the superintendent comes to
the board of finance presumably in the
past. I don't know if they've done it
separately with the board of selectment
and I think this year they're thinking
well you have joint meetings so why
don't we present to you both at the same
time. So that's the plan. Uh so I'm I'm
good with the 18th. Uh if anybody has
any further comments let me know.
Otherwise we can just uh plan on that.
Okay. Um, anybody else have any other
changes or additions to the agenda
tonight that they want to propose?
>> Um, I I'd like to add an issue
>> if you don't mind.
>> Um, I'd like to address um I had made a
request last month about information
specific to the transfers, the HBAC
transfers on the board of ed budget, and
I haven't received that. So, I'd like to
just talk about that. So, I don't know
if that would be old business, new
business
from last month.
>> Uh,
yeah, we we can add that in as uh new
business 6A, I guess.
>> Okay.
>> Uh, anybody? So, what do we make a
motion to that effect and vote on it?
Um,
>> I'd like to make a motion.
>> You want me to make the motion or do
>> Go ahead. Go ahead. It's your motion.
Make a mo make a motion to add item 6A
to the agenda to revisit my request for
documentation to support the
board of ed transfer of
$127,468
to the R&M HVAC line item in the 2024
2025 budget.
I'll second that.
>> Okay. Is that specific enough?
>> Very good. That's very That's very
specific. All right. Uh all in favor of
that motion?
>> I
>> Okay, anybody opposed? Any abstensions?
Okay, motion passes. 6A will be on
there. All right.
>> Uh make sure I don't forget it, Liz.
Okay, so uh we have a town
administrator's report here. Oh, sorry.
We're Are we done with new additions,
deletions? Anybody? Anybody got
anything? No. Okay. Going once, going
twice. All right. We have a town
administrator's report in our packet. I
don't know if Jim is up to running us
through it verbally, but um I hope
people have had a chance to at least
scan through it. I I went through it
very quickly.
>> Seems like we're we're addressing our
staffing issues, which is good.
>> Fantastic. moving forward with some
projects like the generator for the
senior center, community center, um
well the prepping for it in any event um
and the long hill bridge and etc. So
budget budget stuff starting to come in
hopefully I I sincerely hope that we'll
get more on that for our next few
meetings. Uh so we get those we have a
look at those preliminary budgets and
see what the various folks are asking
for. Um, okay. So, I I don't know, Jim,
if you're up for talking, you know, if
there's anything that I'm not hitting
here that you think is important to
highlight,
uh, let me know.
>> Otherwise, I guess
>> since Jim is out of Rob, out of
commission because of his dental work.
Uh, if you guys have any questions, I
I'll be happy to fill in for Jim and do
what I can to answer anything if you
guys have anything on his report.
Okay.
I mean, basically, I I would tell you
from from my one thing from my end is
the plow, we're going to have a little
bit of an issue with plowing overtime.
Obviously, the storms in the beginning
of the year for ice and this last storm
uh happening on a weekend have not
really helped our cause. So, um, we're
hopeful that this nor easter does not
come up the coast and hit us again on
another weekend because it is really
>> going to cause us a little bit of a
problems with our overtime line. So, I'm
just letting everybody aware of that.
So,
>> thank you.
>> You know, worst comes to worse, we'll
have to address it um either finding
some line item that's underexpended or
or dipping into contingency. Hopefully
not. But um and I see there that we're I
don't know about running low, but we're
chewing through our sand salt sand mix
pretty good as well. Uh to be halfway
through the end of January.
>> Hopefully we get lucky from here on out.
We'll see.
>> Nothing you can do about it.
>> I I can give you an actual real time
update on that. Um
>> we What was the problem was right before
the storm, everybody was having issues.
So, what Eric, our new public works
director, who by the way, I I'll give
him a shout out, too. He's he's doing a
very good job. Uh very happy with
having him in place right now. Um so, he
um
he had an order in for salt. He wasn't
getting anywhere. And with this storm,
there's been a significant usage and
uptick on the salt. So what he did uh
and you will notice it around our
streets is he mixed the sand and salt
together. So our roads have been sanded
for the first time in years. Uh and that
was simply to stretch our salt out in
case the delivery that we had on order
didn't arrive. But um as of today, we're
supposed to get that delivery. Um it's
supposed to be delivered tomorrow. And
Eric's response was to me, uh, I'm
hopeful that we'll get it all, but with
what has been going on lately, I believe
it will be I believe it when it's all
stacked in our shed. So, we should be
okay with that. But there there was a
little delay. There was some information
that there was a a problem with the port
and getting some barges into the port on
salt. Um, but for whatever reason, um,
we're supposed to be on the delivery
schedule for tomorrow.
>> Okay. And on the salt, um, is there
budgetary potential budgetary impact
there or are we okay on the
>> we're budgeted amount?
>> Yep, we should be good on that one.
>> Okay. Well, I mean, the weather is what
it is, right? We deal with it. Um,
all right. Uh, and then, uh, you know,
my my only question here is just as a
refresher on this senior community
center. Well, not just this. It's the
fire, the town hall, and the community
center. The installation of this switch
in anticipation of the generator system,
the generator itself. Can you remind me?
Have we
already set all aside everything we need
to do for that generator?
>> Uh, that is not a set aside. We didn't
tax the residents for this. This is
coming from uh uh one of uh two sources.
It's either coming from the federal set
aside grant that we had pushed through
um Senator Murphy and Senator
Blumenthal's office or it's going to
come out of a steep grant uh a state
grant that we already have.
>> So we have we have let's go this way.
>> We have two sources coming up that total
a little bit over $500,000. One is a a
state it's not a state grant. It's a
state grant that uh Senator Ramen uh
assisted us with in obtaining and there
is a 200 and a little bit over 250,000
grant that was from the federal uh
senatorial set aides and the plan is to
use those two dollars to um those two
amounts to connect the generator to the
community building. So the fire
department, the town hall and the
community center and the remaining money
is to be used to um in uh make finishing
touches to the community center such as
the kitchen and such as the downstairs
room to sit there and improve both
facilities. So those have been done with
grant funding or federal funding,
however you want to look at it.
>> Thanks for the refresher. I I had just
forgotten that's all. All right. Thank
you.
Uh does anyone else have any questions
uh looking through this administrator
report? Uh anything else they want to
bring up and discuss?
>> I'm good.
>> Okay.
>> Just I'm just quickly going through the
rest of it. Just
>> Okay, I'm good.
>> Just to let you know on that budget to
actual They did it. Who printed it?
Didn't know. I can compact that onto one
page. You've got two sections of that
budget to actual there. It's like page
to page. Page to page.
>> Yeah,
>> we can compare that. Yeah.
>> I I made a note. I made a note and I was
going to say, is there any way we can
get this on landscape?
>> Oh, definitely. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah. And Jeff said something too about
um budget um trying to do a format on
that too and give you some more
information on a different format for
the budget too.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
>> Yeah. Thank you.
>> Right. Yeah, that makes sense.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, that brings up that is our next
agenda item budget to actual. Um did
anybody have anything further on that at
this time that they wanted to ask about?
Um and so forth.
Can you read it is the question
because that is I mean I actually res
resorted the pages so that I
>> I did too
>> so I could look at it. So, um,
well, I mean, I I would sit there and I
would I would go through, you know, your
revenue
is seeming appropriate. And when you go
through your expenses,
>> you know, there's not anything that's
crazy out of line, but you need a
different level of information. and and
what I've spoken to Lisa about so
everybody's aware and and I spoke
briefly to Rob about it, but
there has to be a consistency of
information that's shared between all
the boards in town. So what has to
happen is the board of finance gets the
information first at its meeting because
it's so late in the month and then that
same information goes to the board of
selectmen so that they can review it. It
just has to be consistent. And what I
would tell you all to do is if you don't
like something, you got to come to us
and we've got to sit there and identify
that it works or it doesn't work. So
this information to me, if I was on your
board and I'm on my board, it doesn't
work for me. So I'm just telling you
it's not I know the information. I see
where it's going. I understand what's
happening, but it's very difficult to
read and it doesn't give you enough of
what you guys need to make decisions
moving forward. And you need to evaluate
the information every month so that you
can see what we're doing. And if we're
running into trouble, you guys are aware
of it and
>> you make your decisions as to what
>> we have to do cuz that's we manage. You
guys identify the expenses and sit there
and say you're overexpended or you're
underexpended. And uh that's that's how
it's got to work. You guys got to get
the information first and then we get to
see it second. So
>> yeah, I mean personally what's in the
past been useful is you know we've when
we've done these meetings you know we've
generally asked someone often it was
Eric you know is there anything in here
that you want to highlight for us that's
getting off track because you don't
always know as board of finance member
how cyclical things are the timings of
things. So, you might look at a line
item and say, "Oh gosh, you know, we're
halfway through the year, but we've
spent 60% of it. You know, are we on
track here or are we over or are we
looking at like we're going over?" And
that's what that's the sort of
information I think we need to know so
that there aren't some giant surprises
at the end of the year.
>> Yeah. I
>> I have a for example, the library stuff,
library payroll and the library
operations that's 45501. It's like it's
almost like double. Did they have an
increase in staff?
>> Um,
>> or both of those is like double.
>> Well, the first line, you have to
remember the first line is what they've
spent to date.
>> To date. Okay.
>> And the second line is what is budgeted
on the first page.
>> Yeah. So, they're 52% spent. So, if it's
halfway through the year,
>> yeah, that second page where I said
would all be on one page, it does say,
you know,
>> Okay. So,
>> and and Louise, so the first the first
column is not the budget. The first
column is what's spent. And
>> yeah,
>> right.
>> This is this is something that I um I
spoke to Lisa about is just improving
the flow of information so it's easier
to read and easier to digest so that we
can all sit there and understand where
we at, where we're at, and what we need
to do. So, we're we're we're going to
work on that. And as a group, as a board
of finance and the board of selectman,
we need to sit there and say, "Listen,
we've done a what I would call in the
process a poor job identifying what
information is appropriate, not
appropriate, and what we want and what
we don't want." We have to do that
across everything to sit there and say,
"This is the information. This is how we
want it." And then you as a board have
to get it in that manner. And I'm going
to sit there and tell Lisa what I think
is important for our board. And then
hopefully it dubtales into what you guys
want and we get one package. I don't
want two packages. I don't want
different information. It's one package.
>> So that that actually the fact that you
brought up the library, Louise, that
actually
brings me to a a question that I had had
when I look at when I look at the
library budget, I see two line items. I
see payroll and I know when we get our
big budget the big budget ex excel book
we can see all the salaries and all that
all that stuff for all the employees but
the other line item is library
operations can we get more detailed
you know probably so like if you look at
the building department there's more
line items in there you know more
specific line items versus library oper
operations just seems like a an overall
number. Should there should there be
more? I I don't know how a library
operates. So, I'm just
>> Jeeoff is that due to them being like
selfoperative
um that they don't have as many lines or
the other thing is in that new format
that we're going to try, we can put
what's in those operations. Even if it's
just briefly, we can do a memo to the
side to say what those operations are.
Um, it is because the library, you have
to remember, we have certain
organizations within town that do their
own internal books. The library and the
fire department are the two entities.
So, yes, we can sit there and break that
out. To be really honest, Liz, uh,
$14,000,
you know, is probably not the one light
on we should focus on, is it?
>> But we'll get it. We'll we'll do it
because you're asking for it and that's
the way
>> it was an example. Yeah, it was an
example as I was looking through it
earlier and I went, you know, I want to
make sure that we evenly look at each
department and don't, you know, pick on
one area more than the other. And and I
just realized that, okay, there's
there's two line items. I know I realize
it's only $14,000.
Um, but it was just kind of an example
of
kind of the limited look, that's all.
Mhm.
>> No, we we can obviously work with the
the library you more information.
>> Just happens that Kathleen was walking
by here and she's the chairman
>> library. She's like,
>> "Yeah, so her ears perked up and she did
provide me with a spreadsheet that does
have that breakdown, Liz." So
>> it was presented. So I'm sure we can get
that to uh Lisa and make sure that's
>> that'd be great.
>> Uh in the report so she has that
information. I can see the breakdown
there. Um, okay. So, we'll get
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> That was quick. Thank you.
>> Yeah. Ask and you shall receive.
>> From you.
>> Okay.
>> All right.
>> Um, so where does that leave us?
Anything further on the budget versus
actual uh, you know, I personally agree
with everything that's been said so far?
I would say, you know, some kind of
comment or, you know, memo line uh would
be good on these reports to alert us to
things or to explain, you know,
preemptively explain things if something
seems out of whack. That would be, you
know, always appreciated. Any any, you
know, anything like that can usually
help us hone in. Um,
so if anybody had anything, you know,
any other thoughts on that, uh, I'll we
can entertain them. Otherwise, we can
move over to the next piece of the
agenda.
Okay. Hearing none. So, that's that
brings us next check register.
Um, I had kind of I've had a kind of a
crazy week. I haven't really had a
chance to look at this. So, does anyone
have, you know, who has been through
this have uh questions, comments, etc.
on the check register?
I perused it um a bit. Um,
nothing really.
Maybe I'm getting used to what, you
know, what we're looking at each month,
so things don't look so curious, but I
can certainly understand why other
people might have questions, especially
>> there was a
>> newer people.
>> There was a couple of things that we
didn't understand last time around, and
I know Jim said he was going to try and
get the definitions of some of those,
and they now escaped me. I had one. I
think Liz, you might have had one too,
>> I think.
>> But they were just like weird things
that you're like, what does that mean?
You know, and they weren't necessarily a
lot of money, but there was just kind of
a weird name for whatever it was. And I
I can't remember what they were right
now. I'm not sure if Jim
>> I think I remembered someone us having a
discussion too to see if there was like
a description or a notes field to
include in this
>> on the far right. That is definitely
something that we talked about that we
would like to have
>> so that people can understand, you know,
when you see a check says the Peterbuilt
store. Okay.
>> Well, Peterbuilt, you know, that's
equipment. um you know but just a little
little memo line to say okay well that
that was spent on this or what have you
would I think a preempt some questions
and b you know prompt others uh that
would be useful to us because a lot of
these you know you you can look at them
and kind of guesstimate what they are or
you recognize them from past reports but
you know it would be nice to have just a
descriptor in there for these things you
know especially when it's you know just
somebody's name.
>> Yeah, this one was just there was a
couple things that just sounded really
strange and they were just like really
>> be nice if they had a better name for
some of these things or a descriptor,
but
>> Right. I mean, exactly. So, you know,
think there's a couple of people there's
a couple things in here that are just
names, you know. Okay. Uh not sure what
that was exactly. So, let's you know, so
yes, I would I'll give like to see
another one.
>> Spring.
>> Spring was one of them. Okay. What is
spring for $9,
>> $875?
You know, spring, guess the whole thing,
>> right?
>> I actually questioned that myself when I
saw it. I didn't have a chance to look
at it today.
>> That was definitely one we talked about
last time.
>> See, I think it was something that we
need to do. We need to get Lisa remote
access so that she could be in
QuickBooks looking at
>> right now. I could look it up for you
and tell you what it is. So she could
almost give you the information as
quickly as as Bill got us the
information on the library.
>> Come on, Lisa. No pressure.
>> That is the goal.
>> I need that. I need that remote access
though.
>> No, spring. Spring. I know. I asked that
question to Eric when Eric was here and
he gave me an answer and I it's for I
for
>> Is it trees? It's not trees like spring
and twig or
>> It's not It's not trees. It's
>> okay. I thought maybe they took down
some trees.
>> Is it ice spring every month? Um,
>> that's a big bill for every month.
>> No, it's not.
>> So, it's not your insurance. Okay. I
just want to make sure it's not your
health insurance.
>> It's let us let us sit there and and get
you that one. So, spring and and and
listen, if you guys look at this in
advance, I mean, like I can tell you
some of them like
>> Yeah. Email. There's some referees that
are on here that are just individuals
and they get paid through the wreck
department budget. And uh uh
>> I had I had a question on one of them.
>> Sure.
>> It was C I R M A
>> Perma Insurance. Yeah, that's your
insurance.
>> Okay, that's what I thought. Insurance,
property insurance, workers comp
insurance.
>> Okay, that's that's our consortium. I
forget what the acronym exactly stands
for, but it's our insurance. Yeah,
>> that's
that is not the that is not the health
insurance consortium. That's
>> right. That's that's a Kerma is a you
know kind of a non
>> Connecticut interlocal
>> yeah owned by the towns
>> multiple almost every town you I say
can't say every town but
>> property casualty work comp that kind of
stuff
>> yes yeah bond tank yeah yeah
>> you know so now you sit there and you
say I'm looking for the health insurance
payment and that is like brown but I got
to look for that one
>> anyway so there. Listen, what's your
>> another column, another column with just
categorization of these things would be
very helpful to us.
>> And again, you know, not every single
some things are very self-explanatory.
It's just the ones that are a little
more, you know.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, and it can it can be done
easily. And the issue is it will tell
you which account it went to. It will
not tell you unless Lisa can figure out
a way to create a memo that will flow
through to a report. Um,
>> yeah, that's just right with the with
QuickBooks, it kind of limits us to what
we can put out here in these other
columns. I mean, I can try, but
>> Well, well, no, it'll be really easy
unless something is split. So, like if
something is split between two accounts,
it becomes It just tells you split.
>> Yeah. that doesn't give you the
individual account. So, we'll work on
it. It's something that can get done.
And listen,
>> there's not that many transactions. I'm
sorry. There's, you know, you take each
page and you go each page is is let's
say 30. You know, how many pages of this
do you have? Five. So, six 180
transactions is the is the month.
>> Yeah,
>> we can we can give it to you. So
>> yeah, one thing let's let's do the ones
that are the the low hanging fruit, the
the ones that aren't complicated, and
then when we get to those ones that are
a little more complicated, split or what
have you, that's where inerson
explanation can fill in the gaps, unless
and until we can get to a point where
you can wrangle QuickBooks into
providing better information. Until that
time, we just ask you um at our
meetings. But yeah, the number one thing
for us I think on the check register is
definitely for those that are
straightforward to do so a memo or you
know explainer line just to categorize
these things. that's a referee up that's
grounds, you know, that's that's the
fields, you know, that's this that the
other just so that we can hone in on the
things that are still question marks and
then we will then we'll be through this
faster and you know we'll get used to it
and it'll help educate some of our newer
members who aren't accustomed to looking
at this stuff too. That's another good
reason to do it. So, uh I'm you know I'm
good on that. If if Liz, did you have
further? Yeah. And I'm sure that um Jeff
probably can answer this. Um the NJR
construction for 153,000.
That's what is that?
>> That that's related to the bridge
project. So
>> Oh, bridge. Okay. I figured it would be
an easy one.
>> So they are running the we're still
getting some u residual transactions
related to the Bunker Hill Bridge and
>> Okay. Those are grantf funded.
>> Right. Right.
>> But we have situations where we lay out
money and get it back. Right.
>> That's that's one of them. So we pay
that 156 and then we submit to the state
and the state reimbures us to 156.
>> Okay. And the other one that I had a
question was the SLR International
27,500.
>> Just below that. Yeah, that is one that
that Lisa and I I'll have to get back to
you on because I don't even know that
one.
>> Okay,
>> it's not in the front of my brain. So,
I'm sorry, Liz.
>> Okay, that's all right.
>> All right, let's come back to that next
time.
>> Okay,
>> one of the things I noticed um
particularly about the spring one, it
looks like that's an AC transaction. If
my memory serves me correctly, that
means they're directly pulling and they
have our bank info, too.
Yeah, AC is automatic clearing house.
That's what AC stands for.
>> But yeah, I'd have to look into it.
>> And it doesn't it doesn't mean um it
doesn't mean that they're pulling it
from us. Um
we actually uh the finance department
sits there and originates AC's on our
end through our bank and then pays the
vendor that way. So, uh, I would there
are, I'm sure, some of these that are
set up as repetitive polls, but not very
many of them if you really look at it.
So, um, I would tell you that that's
something that, uh,
uh, we we initiate and then submit to
them.
>> Yeah. Because if you look right above,
it is the RAM and the AES payables.
>> Yeah.
>> So, that's thing we would initiate.
page is that is that on
finding it.
>> AC is automated clearing house. It's
just a bank term for taking that out.
>> Spring is spring is at the top. Right.
>> Right. I'm just Which which page is it
is what I'm trying to
>> page one on the bottom.
>> Oh, page one at the bottom. Oh, there it
is. Okay. I was trying to catch up and
>> Yeah. So it says it says check because
of the transaction but RAM AES and
Spring and WEX Bank is the gas card for
the the senior vans all get paid
by initiating the transaction just like
you know WEX is really a credit card
company. I mean it's like you paying
your credit card online. It would be
considered that type of transaction.
>> I quickly Googled SLR. Uh there's some
sort of consultant group that does quote
unquote sustainability
um sustainability and also apparently
athletics fields and stuff like that. Uh
I'm not sure what if that jogs anybody's
memory, but that's what came up via the
great Google. Um but we'll we next time.
>> Yeah, I was going to say maybe it has to
do with the um the pickle ball field.
Maybe
>> that's a possibility. Sure. They're not
the ones They're not the ones looking at
the trail connection, right? That's a
different
>> That That's it. It's It's money It's
money related to the engineering
services on the um the Percy Cook Trail.
>> Okay. So, it is
>> I I don't I will sit there and I'll tell
you yes, I believe that's what it is.
And you're probably you're probably
right, but I have to verify that. Uh
it's the engineering service. We had to
we had to commit the money for the
engineering services on that trail and
then there is a grant that will pay for
the construction of that trail. So
that's the trail that we've been
discussing to link uh the rail trail and
the
>> complex at the town hall community
center.
>> Right.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. That makes which to be really
honest, if that ever gets built, you
know, not think not, you know, thinking
of it in such a way, it'd be a great way
to get seniors and people to walk from
the community center down to the trail
without hitting a road, without doing
anything just for exercise purposes. I I
you know, the more I thought about that
project, the more I sat there and said,
"That's a really interesting project
that might benefit some people so they
don't have to walk on the road." So, but
yes, that's uh engineering. I'm 95% with
you, Rob.
>> That makes sense.
>> Yeah.
>> Did I hear a
Okay. Uh, does anybody have any further
questions on the check register at this
time?
Uh, Melissa is raising her hand.
Um,
>> that was accidental. I'm sorry.
>> Okay, no problem. I kept hearing this
little pop and uh wasn't sure what was
going on. All right. Very good.
All right. Next, let me scroll back up
to the agenda here.
>> Donations.
>> Donation.
Donation requests. Oh, I don't think
we've made any progress here. Uh, this
was the
>> Go ahead.
>> Sorry. Go ahead, Bill.
>> No, I was just say it's probably
something that could be removed, but
then I thought maybe with Lisa she could
we could fill her in on what it is and
see if she had any further thoughts
about it than Christine had, but I don't
know if you want to go ahead and
>> Yeah. So, I mean, we had a request uh to
for could the town take in
donations? Uh, I forget the specifics of
the donation. It wasn't a ton of money.
>> It was It was Diane Grineier, I think,
was trying to donate some money.
>> Help me out. Was it something to do with
the library or something else in town?
>> Norton fund. It was the Norton fund.
>> The Norton fund.
>> Norton fund.
>> And there were some questions at the
time, I think our past treasur about
whether, you know, what mechanism we
would use to do that. Could we do it? Do
we already have too many bank accounts?
That kind of thing. And it it never
actually got resolved.
Um, so I guess the question is, yeah, is
that something for the So we have a
Norton fund,
uh, you know, charitable fund here in
town. Uh, I don't recall off the top of
my head how their funding is normally
stored and distributed.
>> And that's another access I don't have
yet because there's two QuickBooks. Um,
and one is for all the smaller accounts,
one is for the major account and smaller
ones. So, I still need to get access to
that. So, we don't know if there's
already a fund. If there is, it could be
in that other QuickBooks.
>> Um,
>> so
a new fund, Lisa.
>> Yeah.
>> Someone who likes to donate money
>> uh to different things. Well, something
that I've done before in QuickBooks is
um
you can do I know auditors don't like
miscellaneous, but you can do
miscellaneous. You don't have to to open
a new bank account, per se, but you have
to list it in the balance sheet. So, I
would work around that. I You're right.
You don't want a zillion bank accounts.
It every little fund shouldn't, I don't
believe, have its own bank account, but
it can be listed separately for certain.
Jeff, is that what you're thinking?
>> Um, this is just something that I think
that we have to figure out a process.
It's it's not something that we're
>> uh I know the previous treasur was dead
set against it because there was going
to be an amount of uh effort to either
create the fund or administer the fund.
>> Yes. And um we just have to find
a a workaround that makes sense.
>> So I don't necessarily know it's
something that we need to waste a lot of
time on, but we do need to try to help
that because why why as a community
would we turn away money
>> trying to donate to us.
>> Right. Right. It's just a question of
how to make it work without it being a a
ton of too much effort, I guess, for the
for the
>> to correctly record it. Why don't why
don't you think about that a bit and
we'll come back to it at you know future
meeting and just kind of touch base on
it but we don't yeah we don't have to
spend a lot of time on this
>> I have a quick question on that Lisa.
>> Okay.
>> Yes.
>> Have you ever done like sub funds?
>> Well that's what I'm talking about in
QuickBooks is like you know on your
balance sheet you have cash and then you
have savings and then you have a
miscellaneous and you put your your
separate funds in there. But like Jeff
said I would have I want to make sure
that it's done properly. So, I would
just want to check into that. But you're
right. And then what you do, you know,
if you wanted a separate list, but it
wouldn't it wouldn't print in your
QuickBooks balance sheet all the funds
printed, but you would know what's in
there and you could keep those line
items separate. But like Jeff said,
we've got to look into it.
>> Okay.
So, I guess we'll move on to 5D, status
of school bathroom renovation project.
Um, I do have some updates on that that
I've gotten the last day or two. Um,
nothing is, you know, definitive, but my
understanding is that they're bringing
in
two additional contractors for
walkthroughs. That planning is underway.
Uh, by the way, Bill, I normally would
ask before I gave out a cell phone
number, but Caitlyn had asked for yours.
I I thought you'd be okay with it.
>> Yeah, she she gave me a date of next
week. They're going to have one of the
contractors are coming in for a walk
through.
>> Yeah, I'm still trying to coordinate
with her though because Jeff Murray
can't do it on on a Tuesday and um
>> Tuesday,
>> they were having some real
miscommunication issues today. So, I'm
trying to mediate that. So, whether it
happens Tuesday or not, uh that's in
progress. Um, my understanding is that's
the right now that's the low bid, but of
course until you do a walkthrough, I
don't know how much you could really put
stock in a bid.
>> Um, my also my in the course of
discussing that with Caitlyn today, she
mentioned that she had a conversation
with Eric Sanderson and he had wrestled
up two more contractors that he wanted
to have do, you know, join the process,
which would get us up to five.
Um
exactly how that's all going to shake
out I don't know but that's sort of the
latest that I have on it. Uh hopefully
the subcommittee members can make these
walkthroughs and you know have some
peace of mind that the right questions
are being asked and so forth. Uh but
anyway that's that is what I have at
this time. uh in terms of that the the
other issue I mean Jeff Murray and I had
a long conversation
a week and change ago right before he
went on vacation
about the process and about what we
might be able to do to kind of come
together and find a way forward and
that's all still in progress. I'm trying
to work with him. I'm trying to work
with Valerie. Um trying to work with
Caitlyn uh to try and make all this
happen and happen in a way that gives
people more comfort and peace of mind.
But right now it's it's still in flux.
That's that's my report. I don't know if
anybody else has anything further. Uh
Bill being on the subcommittee
obviously, you know, sorry kind of
chimed in that
>> that's exactly what I would say right
there and I know as much as you just
said just now. So I'm looking forward to
that. Hopefully next week um before I go
on vacation we can get some of those
walkthroughs done.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. Kim,
>> I just wanted to say thank you for the
update, Rob. I appreciate that. That's
important and thanks for all that.
That's a lot to
>> try and keep up with it. You know, I I
wasn't able to make the last uh
>> board of ed meeting. Monday nights are
terrible for me, but um
>> understandable.
>> I'm generally trying to keep my ear to
the ground on this and try and
do a little mediating if I can. Uh and
uh we'll see. But yeah, right now that's
the situation and nothing is changed
particularly until we unless and until
we have more bids. There's there's not a
lot to say cuz it was agreed that we'd
get at least two more. So, that's where
we're at. Um,
>> anybody has
>> I was just going to say I I mean I think
we do need the different contractors and
stuff, but Nick and I went down last
weekend for um she gave us a tour of the
school.
>> Bathrooms are they need to be fixed.
They're
>> Oh, yeah. Pretty bad.
>> I don't think there's any real questions
about that. uh they're out of commission
and and there's some really old piping
and whatnot in there.
>> So, um but it's a question of the
process and how it's done and making
sure people feel it's being done
properly is
>> absolutely.
>> So, um
>> is there also a drainage I also heard
there's some a drainage problem or
something?
>> I think that's how it started. I think
that's how they found uh the problem,
wasn't it? Originally was leakage and
and drainage problems.
really old cast iron piping associated
with those bathrooms.
>> She said one of the boys bathrooms was
like leaking all through the pipes down
into a room like Yeah.
>> Yeah. Right. And at one time it was a
mold issue which was also brought to
attention too. So
>> right.
>> Yeah. It was this goes this goes into
having
an appropriate capital.
>> Oh dear. He froze there for a second.
>> Okay. Am I back?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Um, this goes into us having a a
truly um
verified and fledged out capital plan
that's documented and there for everyone
to understand. a 10-year capital plan to
say these are projects that are coming
down the road so that the board of
finance and the board of selectmen can
sit there and get together and say this
is how we're going to fund these things
because
u not only does this project needs to
get done this project needed to be
funded in an appropriate way. So uh we
have issues related to a lot of things
related to this project but a capital
plan will surely help us all together
plan for what has to happen.
>> Agreed.
>> Uh I I've long wanted you know a capital
plan and who knows someday we'll we'll
take the step of uh actually having a
separate capital budget. Well that's a
whole another story and a whole another
discussion. Um so that's that's where
we're at on that. If anybody has a
further fine, we can talk about it.
Otherwise, we can move on.
>> I I go back to that if I can. Rob, what
do you mean? We we have capital budgets
on on the projects. We have funds.
>> No, I I mean for specifically for as
opposed to
>> as
>> Yeah, like RAM does.
>> Okay.
>> They have a separate capital budget.
>> I don't know if that's the right answer
for something I've been noodling around
about.
>> Separate entity. It's a different world.
>> I understand that.
>> Yeah. So,
>> I understand that. But I also think and
look I'm getting off topic so I don't
want to belabor this but just thinking
back to you know how long I've been
involved in town and how many projects
in the past that were really pretty
pretty much capital projects got done
out of the school ops budget or some
other mechanism that just doesn't to me
seem like the right way of of doing
things. So I think it's it's something
going forward especially the next time
we look at the charter that we we should
be thinking about. I'm not saying I have
all the answers to it.
Yeah. And I I kind of have some
procedural things about that. I've
started dissecting the um charter and
looking at some of the information
myself
and and maybe this is a conversation I
could get take offline with someone, but
I I was kind of curious what the proper
procedure for something like that is
because we we had this I could under we
we went to the school and we physically
saw it. there was a leak and it turned
into something that progressed more and
it put the school in a bad position. But
I I just was curious like in these
situations, what's our order of
operations? And if this isn't the right
venue, I'd be happy to take it offline
with someone.
>> Yeah, I mean that's that's been evolving
and being discussed and there's
disagreement about it uh how it ought to
be run. um you know we only just
recently this past budget year put
together a capital fund
um you know that for the for for AES
that hadn't existed before um how to
handle that appropriately is something
where not everybody sees eye to eye um
and you and I could I could absolutely
chat with you about it you can we we can
to kind of give you the backstory but we
are in a place right now where we have
this capital fund and there's money in
it Um, and there's disagreement about
exactly how the process should work to
release funds from that fund. Um, you
know,
that's the short.
>> Should I share with them how I've done
it in the past or No, it's now not the
time.
>> I'll take I'll take any, you know, if
you want to add information from what
you've done in the past, go buy. had a
10-year capital plan and if you have a
firetruck that's $800,000 and you're
going to finance it over four different
years, you slice 200 200 200 and you put
that in the first four years. So your
first column is the only thing you're
voting on because that's the current
year, but you have a 10-year plan. So if
you know you're not going to need
another plow for three more years, you
scoot that over three, you know, and
every year is a certain percentage of
your full budget that you don't want to
spend over on your capital if you can
help it. But that plans, you know, you
put in 350 350,000 a year for for your
roads, for your public works. You put
that in all 10 years and then and then
you take a, you know, your gear. Well,
that's different for fire because fire
takes care of themselves. We used to put
10,000 aside for each firehouse for gear
and hoses, you know. So, you put it in
all 10 years of the plan. So, you're
looking and as you come down, you can
see, oh my gosh, this is third year.
We're going to need a plow. And it's
like, well, we also need, you know, a
fire truck. So, what do we It just gives
you long range planning.
>> That's how many vote for that. Yeah. You
only vote for that first year. And I
used to take out like a two-year note in
the first year if something was 100,000
would put 50,000 in the budget and then
50,000 in the note and pay it the next
budget.
>> Yeah. We just
the issue has been in the past in the
past um and up till this date, you know,
there's no formal capital plan for the
school. It's something that we've talked
to the superintendent about. So we've
talked to the board of ed about they
really need to produce one.
>> Um
>> the school was included in our 10-year
plan. That was they were like the first
>> ideally we would integrate it. Yeah. But
the point is they have to the board of
ed and the superintendent have to to put
together that plan and bring it to us.
Bring it probably through CIP. We we
have a capital improvement commission u
um a committee rather. Um, and then we
can then have a
>> document that includes not just the town
stuff, but the school stuff
>> and we can talk about, you know, you
know, what needs to go into that fund.
So, we're not, it's not ad hoc like we
know we had the bathroom project, so we
put money in for the bathroom project,
but what's the next thing and what's the
next thing and what's the next thing and
what's the time frame? So, no, that's
absolutely something we want to do. It's
something we've talked about before.
It's something that we have asked for
and we will continue to ask for uh for
sure. Uh the the issue is also just the
pro procedure for releasing
funds.
>> See we didn't have a fund per se. It was
its own budget. So we had the school
budget, we had the town budget and we
had the capital budget and it's all one
budget. That's how you know we did it.
So that capital budget was part of that
total budget piece.
>> So in that first column of those 10
years, that's what goes in your budget.
And as that project is done, the town
pays for it, but it comes out of your
capital budget, but it comes out of your
general fund,
>> right?
>> So, so there's no like fund set aside ex
unless that project is already in that
that year,
>> right?
>> Well,
>> and if it's a two-year or threeyear
project, you have to put it in your
budget. If you guys all understand what
is going on with this is what is being
asked and what you're even saying Rob is
that the school needs its own capital
funds so they can manage their own
projects. That's what you're basically
trying to say and um that is what you're
trying to say and there's definitely
going to be a lot of disagreement about
that because again it's a town building.
It's the biggest town building. It needs
to be maintained. We just all have to
work together. And to be really honest,
as a volunteer, as a volunteer, because
I'm a volunteer, I am so disgusted that
we can't just work together as simply as
possible. So, and if you look at your
budget from last year, it's on the last
page. This board made $967,000
capital related or $980,750
capital related uh appropriations last
year and they all went into different
funds that we keep to sit there and
manage. The biggest one being road
improvement which we try to do every
year and then then the ones that we've
been trying to save for are the bridge
and culvert fund because that's going to
be a problem. We have a culvert going on
Lake Road over Bazula that's going to
cost us a lot more money than we
originally planned for
>> and uh
>> and that's a 50-50 grant situation,
right?
>> 5050. It's potentially going to cost us
upwards of $900,000. So, we've been
we've been we've been but we got to try
to find other alternative sourcing
mechanisms for it. But again, I'm going
back to a really simple concept. This is
either it's easy. It should be easy for
all of us to work together and get
things done. should not be difficult.
>> No,
>> there should be a plan. There should be
a plan of what needs to happen. And
>> that correct reminds me of something
that was mentioned the other night at
the board of ed meeting. Valerie
mentioned that, oh, next year is going
to be, you know, a more difficult year
because there may be a bigger project
and alluding to something about the air
conditioning. I don't quote me on it,
but I'm thinking this sounds like a
capital thing that should be in the
works, in the plan, CIP,
>> right?
>> So,
>> and you know, and I I will follow up on
that because I've had this conversation
with Val before. Um,
>> please. Thank you.
>> She told me that she was working on a
capital plan. So,
>> okay, let's get it done. Even if it's
even if it's a little rough, let's let's
get it done. Let's talk about it
>> because
we need to prioritize and have a general
ballpark target for okay,
>> we can limp along for two more years
before we need to do X. X is going to
cost this order of magnitude. Even if
it's a fuzzy number, we can at least
start to plan. So,
>> do we have fiveyear plan that we asked
for, Jeff? I remember we had our tri
board meeting
>> a year or so ago. We asked them to give
us a five-year
capital plan with, you know, their
projects prioritized with budget
amounts. Did we receive that? Do we have
that five-year plan?
>> They started, we uh Eric presented
before he left a 10-year plan as to what
he thought was was coming down the road
that had been put out to the public. Uh
we presented it to the board of
education. and Valerie started had
started one and um uh we haven't gotten
that completed yet. And again, I'm just
going to sit there and say you are the
board that controls all of this money.
You control all of the money and how
it's set up. So, you guys have to be the
ones that demand the information and
demand the capital plan and demand
everything else because you guys are the
ones that are setting how much money
we're taxing the residents.
>> Yeah.
>> So, well, as I said,
>> work in progress. We're going to get it,
but we're going to we're going to keep
pushing on that. We're going to keep
looking for that. Uh that doesn't relate
directly to this project. I mean, this
project's already in the works, but we
absolutely need to make progress on it
for whatever is coming down the pike,
whether it's something, you know,
whether it's their boiler room, whether
it's their HVAC system, whatever it is.
Um,
absolutely, we need to we need to
tighten that up. We need to have a plan.
We can look at it the same way that we
look at our fire equipment or our uh
bridges and coververts and so forth, our
other big ticket. So, are you not saying
that their cap that the board of ed
capital is just in their board of ed
funds, their budget?
>> No.
>> Right. The town.
>> No. No.
>> Okay.
>> There's some backstory to this, but
>> they didn't have a capital They've never
had a capital budget, as far as I'm
aware. I don't think AS has ever had a
capital budget the entire time it's been
in operation. So,
>> why why would they? I mean, it's a town
building, but why would Anyway, anyway,
>> because the charter clearly says that
the board of ed is responsible for the
operation and maintenance of 35 school
roads
>> operation and maintenance maintenance.
Maintenance
>> maintenance is not a capital
expenditure.
>> It's not maintenance.
>> I mean, I think as you know what is
capital and what is not you you get into
some fuzzy areas of what's maintenance
and what's a rebuild and you know and
like that. So, we need to figure that
out and all work. I agree with you. I
agree with you on that. And just so this
board understands the problem with this
that every everyone on that board of of
selectmen realizes that that project
needs to get done, right? It does really
need to get done. It's the process of
how the project is being handled. If
there is no bid on this, you will have a
backlash from the board of selectmen and
from the town. I'm just telling you and
you guys are responsible for and to be
really honest you guys are responsible
for this entire thing to be really
honest because the board of education
was under budget by 400 and some odd
thousand and this board voted to put 400
and something thousand in a fund
>> didn't go to town meeting nothing so we
got a lot of problems but I am
understanding that it needs to get done
>> I I disagree with you on it didn't go to
the the public because the presentation
>> that was presented on the next year's
budget.
>> on the next year's budget.
>> Okay, I'm not going to semantics, but it
was passed at the referendum. We showed
it on the slide.
>> Never money was to be moved. Anybody
else on the board remember this?
>> Never.
>> You know what, guys? Come on.
>> You know what?
>> It was on that presentation that we made
when everybody voted to put it to to
referendum.
>> Okay,
>> look.
>> I'll find the slide. Jeff,
>> slide doesn't matter. really I really do
not want to have this argument right now
about whether you know you think that we
made the wrong call been putting that
money in. We've already voiced this
before prior meeting. I heard you then
you know you know I have a different
take. Let's let this go for now and move
on with our agenda because the money's
in there. The question now is how to do
the project right and all that. Louise,
what do you have to say?
>> Uh I just have a question. um being on
the board of finance, do we have an
obligation to if we don't receive the
necessary required information to make a
decision on a budget, can we actually
withhold that until we get the
information
like we request certain things let's say
from the AES? If we don't receive that
information,
can we withhold
um approving that budget? Do we have
that capacity?
>> I'm going to have to go back and and
review the charter again, but uh I'm not
sure we could actually do that, but I I
will continue to ask for um more
information on the capital plan. I mean,
that's something it's a running
conversation I've been having with
Valerie for some time. I will raise it
again.
>> Can you check the charter as well
though?
>> Yeah, I know. I need to check the
charter and look and look at the state
statutes again as well because you get
into this issue of board of ed per
purview versus board of finance perview
and I'd like to be careful.
>> Um, and uh, you know, this is another
place where in the past we've had
differing interpretations which is not
great. Uh, sometimes the charter isn't
crystal clear. Sometimes its interaction
with state statutes isn't perfectly
clear to to a lay person anyway. And
then you get into legal opinions and
everything like that. And quite frankly,
I I'd like it to be clear. So, we're not
into dueling opinions. But
>> yes,
>> you know, I have to review it. The last
time I looked at the charter for these
reasons and the state statutes and
everything was when, you know, I was
working with Shannon on an attempt to
create a process for the use of the
capital fund. And you know, I can I can
just tell you my vague recollection of
all of that was that it's not always
crystal clear. So, I have to I do need
to go back and re-review that. So, we'll
we'll we'll come back to that issue.
>> Um,
if we can move on because, you know,
this we're 8:00 here, so I'd like to
keep us moving. If we can go on to the
corrective action plan status, I I think
there was progress made here, was there
not, Jeff? the the audit corrective
action plan for the two budgets ago.
>> It's been filed. Um it was filed
I don't know if it was two weeks ago,
but it's been filed. So the um
there was one uh well you read the you
read the corrective action plan.
Everybody should read the corrective
action plan and the issues that are
raised in the corrective action plan.
And you as the board of finance have,
you know, through the treasur have the
responsibility to make sure all those
corrective, all those items are taken
care of for the next audit so that we
end up getting down to no corrective
actions required. So, but it's been
filed.
>> Will we get a copy of that?
>> Um, sure. I can make we can Lisa can
make sure that you guys all get that.
>> That'd be great.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you.
All right,
brings us to 5F as monthly financial
reporting.
Any expectations?
Um
>> I did notice we have the their budget
down there uh attached to this packet
too, right?
We have the uh custom expenditure report
which gives the adopted budget expended
year-to- date percentage used and
whatnot.
>> And then the detailed custom expenditure
report which breaks those c
>> breaks those categories down a little
more.
I I
I was looking at this and if you guys if
we could look at like page 32, it's the
first page.
>> What is it? Because I have a print out
>> 32 the slide. It's the monthly summary.
>> Okay. So, the first page of theirs, but
32 into our packet.
>> 32 into the package.
>> Okay.
>> Monthly summary.
I I just thought there was some good
information over on the right side
related to grant funding received.
>> Yeah. Yes.
>> And what what I would ask the board of
of this this goes into what information
do we get each month so we understand
what's going on. I would love to see the
expected dollars to be received on those
grants over the course of the year and
all grant funding because that's a
separate item,
you know. So if if we provide this year
we're providing $4,565,000
if that's the annual appropriation and
I'm not saying I'm looking at the number
here. I'm not sure if that what's got
approved or didn't but it's 4 million uh
565. Then you take all the grant funding
and you put that on top and that's the
total amount of money that that I think
is there. I mean there's other items
that we need to address too. I would
think that you would want you know you
would want the grant funding, tuition
payments. Um and then you have other
miscellaneous items like lunch money
that's collected and student activity
funds that are collected in total. You
know so that you can sit there and
understand how this all fits together.
But I liked that that was at least there
because I don't think I've ever seen
that.
>> Right. It is good to know what the
grants are for. U so you can kind of put
that mentally in the right place.
>> I I agree with you that you know a lot
of these grants to the extent that
they're coming in in in
>> either you know monthly quarterly you
know that would also be useful
information like this is the first
installment but we're expecting three
what? Well, like if if you look at those
uh school mental health and and the
school mental health supports, those are
if I and and I will let Jodianne correct
me. I did some research and those were
ARPA related programs. And if those are
ARPA related programs, they're going to
end.
>> Yep. And if you have expenses built up
against those grants, then you you now
have uh and this is why I think we need
the grant money for the prior years
because we've got to understand what
grant grants have ceased to exist and
what you know maybe we picked up extra
employees to deal with those grant
fundings when they were available.
And uh it's really good information that
we need to get. I mean, it says right
here, mental health grants expiring
63026, supplemental only.
>> Yeah.
>> So, yeah, to to your ARPA point.
>> Yeah. To, you know, and I I just thought
it was great. I mean, to be really
honest, that that's that's what this
board really needs to make decisions is
what is the total grant dollars? How
much is expected? Did we collect it all?
It's kind of like when you look at uh
the town numbers for taxes. If we're
collecting the right amount of taxes and
we budgeted the right amount of taxes,
we've done a good job collecting. If we
haven't done a good job collecting,
we're going to be short and it's going
to cause financial hardship for the
community. So, um yeah, that was
interesting.
>> So, I I would like to see like with the
budget that we get from them, the
their their um their budget, whatever.
I'd like to see it in a format that
includes the income at the top like we
like we see our town budget with all the
all the incomes
all sources of income. I would love to
see these sources of income
as well. Um,
>> right. I the other the only the only
question mark I have on that is to the
extent that grants come in or are
approved or whatever midyear how we
handle that information. But I agree.
No, I generally agree with you. We want
a revenue section,
>> right?
>> And you can look at that as against your
expenses and uh you know the way we do
it on on our spreadsheet. I I don't
disagree with that. That would be that
would be helpful.
But yeah, I I really don't have a sense
for how much grant
funding
is decided upon and therefore comes in
after a budget is passed you and you're
into the year.
>> That's something that, you know, we also
should talk about. And to be really
honest, all the grant funding
is
all the grant funding you're identifying
comes out of some other line item that
you've already budgeted for. Unless I'm
incorrect and I need to be corrected on
that and Jodianne is here, please let
her communicate to it. But all that
grant funding is going to go and and
reduce a line item accordingly. I don't
think that's necessarily true, Jeff,
because sometimes these grants, I
believe, and just just in talking about
this stuff with with Valerie in the
past, some of these grants come with
strings attached like you have to use it
for a specific thing. You have to stand
up something that may not be true that
you're reducing dollar for dollar
something we budgeted. That's something
that is something we, you know, in a
comment line or what have you, that
would be very useful information.
>> Yes.
>> For us to understand. Uh
>> um there are there were some of those
grants that were identified as you had
to use it for additional services
>> placed out there and and like the ECS
fund funding is an offset to to
expenses but these grants and that's
what I was really saying they may be
targeted you might have to pick up
something extra right okay
it was very good information and I would
tell you I went through their
information that they provided and just
So everybody's aware like 64%
of the total expenditures are related to
uh employee costs. So it really would be
believehoo you guys to get a handle on
understanding how much of the wages and
where they're at are. So 64% of that the
what you budgeted for last year is
related to employee
uh benefits wages and taxes. And then 16
and a half percent is being budgeted for
medical insurance. So I thought that was
really interesting.
>> You froze again, Jeff.
>> What?
>> He's not freezing for me, Rob.
>> He froze for me. I lost him for about 10
seconds there.
>> Well, now I'm being told my internet
connection's unstable. So maybe it's my
fault.
>> Maybe unstable.
>> Yeah, he seems to be fine.
>> Basically, basically the huge huge
pieces are related to that. wages and to
the medical insurance. So, I would tell
you that that's,
>> you know,
>> y
>> where you end up
>> Jod is here and I I I think it's a great
time to go to her. Jody, uh
>> yeah, I'll just say so if we know we
have a grant um for example, like the
title one grant, um the amounts we don't
necessarily know, but we'll know we're
we'll get some title one money every
year. So just so you know in the new
budget that is already taken out you
know so for example if if we know that
you know $14,000 can cover part of a
teacher's salary then that has already
been taken out of the operating. So in
those cases when we know we're getting a
grant that that is used to offset and
the operating budget is reduced in cases
like you said we may have um if we don't
know we're getting a grant and that does
happen Robert as you said we'll get
grants um in the in the middle of the
year and then you know that salary might
have we it might have already been in
the budget and then we can offset it and
that's actually how AES did has wound up
with a little bit of a surplus um
because they got grants
after the school year started that then
they were able to um use. So that's
probably where they that's why they had
any you know surplus that they were able
to put into the 2% non-lapsing.
Just thinking out loud here as I'm as
I'm thinking about this, maybe it would
be useful if on some of this
documentation that we get for the
purposes of kind of educating us and so
we understand it if we could have some
maybe a separate section for you know
mid-year grants or whatever something
that wasn't sure going into the budget.
Um, and that's sort of like the date
that that grant went live. So, we can
understand that, okay, that came in mid
year. That's something that we basically
couldn't have planned for necessarily.
We weren't sure about. Um, and it's sort
of its own little category maybe just
off the top of my head. Um, so what
you're saying, if I'm understanding you
correctly, is if going into this the
budget season we're we're sure of a
grant or as is sure of a grant and it's
going to offset some costs, you already
are pulling that out of your
expenditures.
>> Yes, we are. So there are several
teachers that um yeah, their their
salaries are not even in the operating
budget because we know they're covered
by a grant. So, for example, when we
look at the um the uh early start prek
grant, okay, so that one is um 66,000
we've received, it's um 33,04
installments. So, um so yes, those then
those salaries are not in the in the
operating budget at all. Um and you see
that that's the largest grant. Um so
yes,
>> how many preschool teachers are in the
operating budget?
>> Zero.
>> How many salary how many
>> how much of the benefits and um
insurance are covered under the general
fund?
>> Um those are you know all the salaries
are covered uh in the in the general
fund. Um benefits are they are by the
>> sorry what did I say salaries are all
covered I'm sorry not by the our
salaries are not in the operating budget
um benefits
um they they are and I I need to be very
clear here and this is where we have to
be very careful not to go tit fortat and
>> we have an obligation
>> we I just want to make this clear
>> health insurance health insurance
and what else what are what
benefits insure uh insurance taxes
whatever.
>> Yeah. Are those covered under the
preschool income or the general fund?
>> Those are primarily covered by the
general fund
but not the salaries. But I want to make
this very clear because I think it is
really important. What people don't
understand is that we have an obligation
by law to provide prek services to
special needs students. So to have a
prek that is
we I think Val's done an excellent job
of trying to of using the prek tuition
and grants to cover the salaries. that's
pretty much unheard. Like she's done an
amazing job doing that. Um the benefits
I think you have to just be really
careful because
you if you get stuck on that you're not
you're not understanding that prek we
have an obligation by law and prek for
services for special ed students are not
will never be free for a district. Does
that make sense? I just think you have
to be really really careful here because
people don't understand that the
obligations that come with with students
especially in prek.
>> So
>> no I do I do understand but we
>> but some people might not not all people
might understand it. So, we've been
we've been told through the years that
the school that preschool is self-
sustaining and we've never been allowed
to see a preschool budget with revenues
and expenses. And I think
as part of the overall our overall
responsibility that we should be allowed
to see that because there because we
know that we have a legal obligation to
cover certain
you know certain teachers even the whole
teacher salary like if there's a special
ed student in a in a preschool class I
think by law we're required to cover
that teacher's salary and we have no
insight sight whatsoever into any of
this.
>> So yeah, I agree and I think you know
again I think you all have to talk you
know you've talked about procedures and
process right and that is something that
you as boards and people all have to um
work out like I do know what's been
voiced is that the salaries for prek are
have are not in the operating budget. So
I think that's been very clear that the
salaries of prek are not in the are not
in tuition.
>> So I guess we haven't seen any
financials to support it. That's all we
we just don't get to see the financials
to support it.
>> If we could get maybe some basic
aggregate data. I understand there's
concern.
We have to be privacy concerns and
things like that. Um so and I want to be
careful there. But maybe what we could
do to satisfy this kind of request is to
say, can we just get kind of the
aggregates of income versus expenditure
on it and then maybe we can put this to
bed and it won't be an ongoing issue
because we keep coming back to it.
>> Well, I think sorry I don't want to
belabor but I think what you can look at
is like look I can tell you all salaries
are covered by tuition and grants. Okay.
So, all salaries. Um, so when you look
at
>> what's not included in that, right?
Okay. Or benefits that is presented to
you in the benefits line, right? And
that's the that's the best way we that's
the way when you look at our new our
budget and the one we put together. When
you look at benefits, okay, that is the
benefits are including all staff that
has taken health insurance with us,
right? And we don't disclose who that
is, you know, what their issues are. But
but what I can tell you is when you look
at that benefits line, that is everybody
at AES who is taking insurance. So
>> what I guess I was getting what I guess
what I'm getting at is, you know,
obviously it's not disagregated between
K through six versus preK, right? It's
it's all together
>> right now. That's the way it's shown.
>> Yes. Wouldn't it wouldn't it um and and
this is just my uh I'm assuming Jodianne
that you have some detailed information
that you use to put together the budget.
Why can't you sit there and take any uh
identifying features off of the
spreadsheet such as teachers names? Now,
we would need to know there's a special
teacher or what step they're in and
provide the board with the details to
support the payroll numbers that you're
talking about. And then that way this is
all done. I'm just telling you, you
you're bo you're you have the details.
This board should see the details.
>> Yeah, but I can't disclose to you who's
taking insurance. That's that's
>> that's Listen Listen, I don't need you
to disclose one thing. show them the
bill.
>> I guess I guess the question is could we
do it at an aggregate form, Jody? That's
what I'm trying to get at is I don't
want to run a file of any privacy
issues. I don't want to get information
that we're not supposed to have. That's
fine. What I'm saying is to in order to
try to address this concern that you
know keeps coming up on this board. Is
it possible we could get without any
identifying features aggregate numbers
not not necessarily line by line but
this is this is the benefits associated
with you know this bit of operations
that's that's just my thought
>> okay I kind of I kind of have a little
issue with that I've been through doing
a little bit of research in other towns
and I found a budget for the town of
Franklin which which really surprised
urprised me. Their their budget, their
their board of education budget was
detailed by they broke down the
salaries. Teacher one, x amount of
dollars. Teacher two, x amount of
dollars. Teacher three. You didn't I
don't even know what their names are. I
don't know what grade they teach. I I
really, you know, I don't know any of
that. But they detailed it so you could
really see. Okay, this is just like we
on the town side get to see this huge
spreadsheet or workbook with various
tabs and we get to see every employees
name, how much they make, how much it's
affecting um um all the other benefits
and all that stuff. And I'm not saying
we need to see names like we you know
you could redact everything.
We are a taxpayers and b we're board of
finance members. Th this should not be
kept from us. So I mean what's the
reluctance? We're not we're not asking
for personal you know personally
identifying information but
we really even the board of ed doesn't
look into that detail of the budget that
Valerie creates. So I just want to say
again my my issue is I I'm not sharing
information about health insurance and
and and like for well and we're not
asking you to we're not asking you
>> but I do think and this is where I will
say like I do think this is this
predates me right so I I think in
Andover I'm learning all the dynamics of
Andover and I think what really needs to
happen is you as boards need to continue
to work together to to determine
you know how
how you're exchanging information and
and what you want, right? So, I'm I'm
kind of um you know, I report to the
superintendent and to the board of
education and they, you know, so I think
you right, you guys all have to kind of
figure that out.
>> Agree.
>> We should agree what we want to see and
and send the request,
>> right? And I think we're just having a
discussion here. I don't you know, this
isn't a formal motion or anything like
that, right? And I just keep coming back
to the idea of if if if privacy is the
concern, you know, aggregate data can is
maybe a way around that instead of
looking
at individual teachers that you might be
able to identify if that's the concern.
We don't even have right now we don't
have a great sense for that. So that's
all I'm just trying to find a way to
Yes. here. Um so that we could get, you
know, enough information that people
here have more comfort uh with what
we're looking at, what's being asked of
us going forward, etc. Um the grant
money, I mean, I would just echo what
Jeff said earlier. The the information
here vis the grants is very good. Um
pleased to see it. you know, um I think
as we mentioned, it would be helpful to
know if some, you know, some or all of
these grants come in in, you know,
several
trenches. I what the right word is for
with several installments. Sorry, that's
the word I wanted. Um just going forward
so we know, okay, look, this is a
$66,000 grant. It comes in in three
installments of 22 grand, whatever. Um
so that we have an idea for that. And
again, I I'll go back to the issue of
the midyear grants. it would be good to
identify those somehow just I don't know
color coded or something along those
lines so that we know hey this is this
is something that wasn't necessarily
budgeted for and then in the comments of
those if we could understand if that
grant creates a obligation as well as
giving you funding but one of those
grants that says hey you have to use
this to build out a new thing right
because I know some of the grants work
like that so we But you know that would
be helpful I think so that you know we
have that information and we don't have
to always go go through this with you
every time we can you know kind of build
that knowledge. Um so that's my thought
excuse me on that little tickle in my
throat there. Um but yeah, I you know,
we we can keep talking to the board of
ed about
what it what detail the level of detail
we get, but I do think it's not
unreasonable to say at the very least
could we get kind of an aggregate
picture of um what's outgoing for
benefits, what's you know, and go from
there. Uh but you know, again, t we can
we can come back to that issue and keep
talking about it. That's fine. But, you
know, the the more obviously the more we
can get, the more um comfortable people
will be when we're reviewing a budget
request for another a new budget season.
Um yeah, that's all. And and you know,
part of this does come from what the
members of this board are accustomed to
looking at when we look at the town
spreadsheet budget town budget
spreadsheet, which Jody, you know, you
haven't been here all that long yet. You
may not be I don't know how familiar you
are with the way our spreadsheet looks
when we start building it. Um, but it's
that's part of I think where where
you're getting these questions from is
that people are thinking about well this
is what I see on the town side that
might be helpful for you and and you
know members of the board and Val to
think about is that's where a lot of
these questions are coming from because
we're accustomed to going line by line
through that spreadsheet you know
so and I and look I I will voice I will
voice one thing I mean technically you
know the the board of ed is the first
sort of you know review board for this
stuff. We we also should have
information um but they also you know
they are tasked with working up their
budget and keeping on top of this kind
of stuff too. So, some of this may be um
you know, stuff we have to work out with
Caitlyn and her board. Um you know, and
not necessarily just put it on Jod, you
know, at our meetings. Uh you know, we
we may have discussion there.
>> Of of course, I would not expect that
sort of level of detail from Jod in our
meeting. Of course not.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Didn't didn't mean for it to sound
that way either.
>> No, no. I I appreciate um I just again I
just want to streamline like you said
like have the right process and making
sure information is going through the
right channels and the right order you
know. Um so
>> the only other thought I have Jody and
again this this is something that maybe
our treasurer can opine on maybe you can
opine on from your past experience.
Do you find it typical that the way you
you guys are handling that grant money
where you're pulling expenditures out of
your budget because it's offset? Do
other towns do it that way? Because I'm
thinking actually what would be better
would be to show the grant money coming
in as income and show the expenditure in
full and explain the offset rather than
yanking it out of the budget entirely. I
I I think that I don't know that that's
best practice and that's I just want to
raise that as a potential concern
because it seems to me that in that way
it's a little bit more opaque in terms
of what you're really spending your
school.
>> You want to show your true expenditure
and if you're taking it out before you
do your operating. We're not it's not
that we're not seeing it. I go back to
the auditors. They're not seeing your
true expenditure. And right now in the
situation that we're in right now with
the corrective action and everything
else,
>> I would list it as an expenditure. I
wouldn't withhold that.
>> I was gonna say I think we've been
audited and that has never been a
corrective action item. Um, I can tell
you actually, Robert, where I live, they
were doing the opposite and then their
books became a mess and then they wound
up doing it how we're doing it, keeping
>> I did I did 60 I did 60 grants and
contracts for a nonprofit organization
in New London. 60 a year. I did 60
reports. I would never ever do it that
way because then you don't your
expenditures.
>> Clearly a difference of opinion a year,
but it's another thing I think we should
all
>> think about and talk about. because
they're the ones that decide whether
>> I am not an accountant. I'm not
actually, you know, a finance
professional. But I would say that just
my gut reaction to that, Jody, when you
explained it that way, oh gosh, I have a
kid at the front door. I'll be right
back. Is that it just sounded a little
off to me, that's all.
>> Well, I'll double check with our auditor
to see if um
>> Yeah, I'm going to be speaking Yeah,
I'll be speaking to the auditor, too,
because I I want I have several
questions. not in particularly about
board of ed but just everything that's
going on. So
>> yeah,
>> I want I want to understand more clearly
>> and it could just be I'm not explaining
it well because in my head it makes a
lot of sense and it works.
>> No, look, a lot of times when you when
you encounter something like this in
either municipal or school budgeting and
it doesn't automatically make sense to
you, a lot of times it's gotten that way
for reasons. All right, but I I would I
I kind of want to dig into those reasons
a little bit. I mean what you're
explaining now where okay in another
town they did it the way that I'm
suggesting it should be done and then it
became a problem. Okay, that would be
good information to understand because
on its face I think to myself all
revenue, all expenditure
all there. Um, that's just my gut,
>> right? School budgets don't typically
it's different from a town budget where
you have your guarant.
It's Yeah, it's not
>> it's focused on expected expenditures
like when even Val gave her
presentation, right? It's it's not
really a budget. it, you know, caves has
presented as anticipated expenditures.
So, it's a bit it's a little bit
different, but I will double check with
our auditors and again, I will I can
talk to some other schools and and um
see how they're doing it and always
willing to look at the way we're doing
things and see if there's a different or
better way we should be doing.
>> Yeah. And and again, I'm I'm willing to
receive more information and more
explanation as to why this is in fact
the right way to do it. I I'm willing to
be educated on this. It's just I'm
raising it because it just struck me as,
you know, it's not the way I think we
would want to do on the town side and I
get that the town and the school are not
the same thing. Um, but just that was my
gut reaction. So, I'm not going to
belabor the point. I think we think
about it, come back to it.
>> Yep.
>> But one thing you said, Rob, was really
important to me is more information is
always better.
>> Yeah. I mean to to the extent that that
information is you know appropriate uh
you know and that's the one caveat I
always throw in right you know if
there's privacy concerns or anything
like that I'd like to steer clear of
them but yes in general information
>> we're talk we're talking numbers we're
not talking student names or teachers
names
>> we have to be just have to be careful to
the extent that we are asking for
something where there need to be
redactions to make sure they're done
right um you know
>> I'm all for redacting what we don't need
to see
>> agree I think through on this. I just,
you know, I'm just probably reiterating
too many times.
>> Okay. Um because the last thing I want
to do is mess that up. All right. So,
>> where are we here? Let's see. That's We
are
>> getting tired, Bill.
>> I'm tired of the same subject going
around and around and saying the same
thing over and over and over and over
again. Let's We said it. Let's move on.
>> Yeah, I agree with you. Um, so I'm going
to move on to 5G faucet O'Neal billing.
This is left on our agenda because there
were still some questions about bills
getting paid. Um, where are we at? What
is left that has not been paid to fuss
O'Neal? Where what are we down to in
terms of outstanding invoices there?
>> $8,000.
>> 8,000 bucks. Is that the hazmat review
bill or is that a different bill? The
hazmat review bill is being paid out of
the 2% non-lapsing.
>> That's right. They voted at the board of
ed to do that. Okay. So, the 8,000
remains is the bit that you objected to
visav construction design. Is that the
>> uh I have a problem with it because
they're changing the plan and the amount
of money on that bill is related to
construction administration services.
We've already gone through their bidding
services and paid for that even though
we haven't done any bids.
So, yes, I have a problem with it.
>> Okay. What do you
if I may ask, what is the
what is your thought on the resolution
of this and how long you know at some
point
I expect the push will come to shove on
that. I mean, how that invoice has been
in for a while now, right?
>> Uh, it's been in for about a month. A
little over a month. Was supposed
to be paid in December.
>> It's not Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> It's It's not like it's been in since
August or something. Okay. But All
right. So,
>> so their entire contract, Rob, was
$58,000. They've been paid $52,000.
>> I thought it was 48.
>> $48,000.
>> You said 48, right?
>> Uh,
>> it was 48,000
>> 48600 or something like that. He
approved like for you know 49 or
something like that to get one
>> and they got paid 42.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So it's it's listen it is it is
simply that if you're going to pivot and
change the type of contract you're going
to have with Fussen O'Neal then change
and get a new contract and pay them
accordingly.
That's my point. So you have to realize
that a lot of the problems related to
this are it was supposed to go out with
design a design contract bid bid then
build someone else. Now it's design and
build all in one place. So you're
>> the contract that is between the board
of ed and fuss O'Neal
>> are you saying does not in fact provide
for the services on this bill that we
haven't paid?
>> That's correct. They're already on to
construction administration.
It has four phases. It has it has
anformational collection phase
>> design development. Go ahead, Bill. Bid.
>> You're just saying there's four phases.
So, the final phase is is contract
management or construction.
>> Construction administration, which we're
nowhere near, right?
>> No.
>> Okay.
>> I I want to say to or Jeff, can you tell
me there there's still they have not
build for the full 48,000, right? So,
the last I knew aside from that $8,100
for the hazmat that's separate. I
thought I thought there was like a
$2,400 check that was hanging out on
Christmas.
>> There is. Okay, there is.
>> And then they have not yet build us for
the remainder. So, they have stopped
billing us um
>> because they didn't get paid.
>> Well, because a lot of sense.
>> Well, because the plan changed, right?
So, when the plan changed that that's
when they said, "Okay, we're halting
>> billing because now that you're right,
the construction part hasn't happened
but it's my understanding they've done
the work it has shifted I agree with you
that in an ideal world should that
contract once once it changed should it
should that language should they have
gone back to and changed it yes I I do
right so high
>> so you're telling me you're telling me
in the board that they they have done
work build us under one contract and
done work on a a side contract that
we're not aware of and we're supposed to
pay them on this
>> no no what I'm saying is that phase
three the services slightly altered and
the work that they were doing. So, you
know, for example, they were fielding a
lot of phone calls from what I've heard
from from town people. That was not part
of the contract, right? So, so the the
committee pivoted a little bit, but I
think your board of education
>> Bill, did you vote on that as a
committee member to pivot?
>> No.
>> Okay. So, so I'm sorry like we don't
have to waste a lot of time on this.
Fussen O'Neal has an outstanding
balance. If you as a board all want to
commit to to having the town sign that
check, you can do it. But it is not the
right thing to do. So as the chief
elected official in this town and one of
the signers on the account, I am not
signing that check
>> ever.
>> No, I'll sign it. I'll sign it once the
committee and once the board of finance
and once the board of selectmen and once
the board of education get together and
decide exactly how we're going to attack
this project so it's effectively done
for the benefit of the community and has
a bidding process. It will all get paid.
They will have to get paid, Robert. I'm
telling you. I know that. I'm just not
paying them now until we get an answer.
Because listen,
the person that signed off on those
bills signed off on those bills, pushed
them to the town to get paid knowing
that that contract had changed and that
they didn't do the services that they
were billing us for.
>> I just want to doing different services.
They may have been doing different
services, but not the services that are
on their invoice and the contract
>> and not what we approved when we
approved this as a board of finance for
the $48,600.
>> And and listen, this would have gotten
through if I wasn't the one signing the
checks. So, yes, I apologize for all
this, but I am not signing something.
When I go in there and I sign checks, I
look at the stuff and I sit there and
looked at the bill and go, "That bill
doesn't make any sense to me."
>> Well, Jeff, part of the issue, and I'm
going to I'm sorry. I'm I'm trying to be
very nice and polite, but don't nobody
told us that check was not being signed.
It sat on a desk and then nobody said
anything. So, I you know,
>> you talk about communication, but it's a
two-way street. If that bill came by and
you didn't think that that bill should
be paid, then you should have come over
with the check in hand and asked the
question instead of just keeping it. And
we had to call for weeks and weeks and
say, "What's going on with this check?"
>> Okay, I'll apologize with that, but it's
been in public and it has been it has
been discussed at multiple meetings like
Bill said. Tired of talking about it
>> at this point. Uh that's where we're at.
Yes. I the only reason I raised it and
kept it on the agenda was to keep track
of it. I don't want to have the exact
same arguments over and over again. So,
I wanted to be aware that the check is
still out there. The the payments are
still being held. They are.
>> I understand your reasoning, Jeff. I've
heard you. Um and I'm going to leave it
there for now. And you know,
>> and and listen, I've said this in public
before. I said at a board of education
meeting. If this board, the board of
finance, which I am not a voting member
of, wants to vote to have that check
released, it'll get released.
It's not just Jeff Magcguire sitting
there doing it. I've already stated it's
your responsibility. If you sit there
and say, "Release that check. I don't
care." Go ahead, release the check.
>> I personally don't feel like it should
be released because I don't feel like
we're getting enough information. We've
been wanting a presentation to all the
boards. We haven't gotten it. And so I'm
with you. A
>> presentation of
>> you asked for a tri board meeting, Jeff.
Yes, I know that.
>> Put it there.
>> Yes.
>> All right.
>> So, so I want to see this is what I'm
trying to get at and this is why I keep,
you know, coming back to this issue is
what gets us to the point
>> where we move forward. If that is that
is the ask
>> the tribe board meeting shouldn't it be
that we all hold to our policies and
actually do an appropriate bid?
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
again.
Yes, that
>> another issue though, Jeff.
>> Purchasing policy.
>> Here's one thing. This earlier contract,
there's two separate issues though.
You're right.
>> Correct, Bill. And I'm with you. But if
we pivot, if we go back to the original
the original program that the board and
that the committee was doing, it was a
designed bill, $48,000. You designed the
bathroom and the renovations that need
to occur in that bathroom. Then you send
it out to bid. You get three, four, five
bids. You take the low bidder and then
you go forward with the project.
>> Well, maybe the low bidder, but yes,
>> maybe low bidder.
>> Maybe not. Depends on select.
>> It's not always it's not always the
lowest bidder that's the most
appropriate. But that said,
>> you know, I understand this is the nut
of the dispute.
>> I am trying both in these meetings and
also offline to get us through this. So
I want that's why I raise it that's why
I ask essentially what will satisfy
because again up until
this this happened you know the checks
were being
issued.
>> So I understand you're saying okay well
we could we could vote to to make you do
it.
>> I would prefer not to take that step.
All right.
>> I'm trying to find a way that we could
all agree to pay the bill. Oh, and you
you realized you realized though that
that Eric Eric processed all of those
bills after Valerie had signed and
approved them all.
>> Yeah.
>> The only reason that this stopped is
because I had to sign checks one day.
>> I know. I know you didn't sign.
>> Just telling you. So, it would have
continued to get paid would have
continued to have been paid until it was
completely done.
>> Okay.
>> And then we're going to pivot. Then
we're going to pivot. Yes.
>> I just want to say, look, my father was
in construction for years, right? So,
you start a job and yes, there's a
contract, but then
>> something comes up and the parties
discuss and they they they they decide
what's going on. So I there I just want
to say that that I think you do a lot of
construction projects, Jeff, and I'm
sure you've had contracts that have been
signed and you do them and then the
contractor says, "Oh, well, we thought
we were going to use, you know, this
this material, but it turns out this
material is better, so do you want us to
move ahead and use this material and
this is we'll do it for the same price?"
I'm sure that happens at a town level on
projects.
>> That's not that's not this what this is
about. That is exactly what this is. She
talked about contract process issues.
Listen, she talked about contracts. Rob.
Rob. Did you get the signed contract?
>> My understanding is the one.
>> Did you get the signed contract?
>> Yes.
>> I have to go back and look at my emails.
Hang on. I got a lot of emails. I've had
a crazy week. I did
>> because
I
>> I haven't gotten a sign.
>> Hang on. Hang on. I have an email from
Caitlyn again. I've been This is on the
15th.
>> Mhm. Authorization
to proceed
signed
12 2025.
>> Yeah.
>> I'd love Can you share that with the
rest of the board?
>> Sure.
>> Perfect.
>> I just I I wasn't involved in the
beginning of this, but I just have a
question. If we're not paying Fuss and
O'Neal because they've changed they're
doing something different. Has anyone
talked to Fuss and O'Neal about this
that things have changed and that's why
we're not paying them or anything?
>> Right. like what have we explained to
them? Yeah,
>> we we've asked for Heather, we've asked
for a tri board meeting so we all can
have a discussion related to all of
these issues.
>> No, I'm wondering if anyone talked to
Fuss and O'Neal that they not doing what
they said they would do or they're
building for stuff that hasn't been
done. Have we talked to them?
>> Um Caval's in constant communication,
Heather, with Fuss and O'Neal and
throughout this process and again it
precedes me as well. I just started in
November. Um but but they have you know
been
>> communicating about all the work that
Fussen O'Neal is is doing. So um and Val
as superintendent
is confident that they have done the
comparable work to what they are billing
for. She is not asking for the board of
finance to um sign anything that she
believes that the work has not been done
for that.
>> I have just forwarded what I got from
Caitlyn to you, Jeff, and the other
board of finance members.
>> Perfect. Thank you.
>> So, you can share that with your board
if if you'd like. And you know, that's
the signed authorization to proceed,
>> which is what I got when I requested,
you know, a copy of the signed contract.
I thought Jeff was saying the $8,000 is
part of the actual construction that
hasn't been done yet.
>> So that's the the issue that he's
raising is this phase because of there
was a bit of a shift they all right. So
the original conception a lot that you
know the understanding was that you know
fuss and O'Neal would shepherd the board
of end through the process but bid out
for subcontractor work right the plumber
the electrician etc. Um, and I think
Jeff's issue is since that didn't happen
and then we got build for work that kind
of comes at the end that hasn't we're
not really in that phase. Um, it doesn't
match up and therefore he didn't feel
appropriate. You know, he was
comfortable signing the check,
>> right?
>> Is that a fair encapsulation briefly?
Definitely
>> they and and and Robert what I'd ask
this is the last page that is just a you
know they should have included the
entire document so that the entire board
could sit there and see the entire
document that was moved forward with
>> but Heather the issue is there were four
phases to the the the the document the
invoice that they sent us. The third
phase was bidding services
which have never happened. And the
fourth phase is construction
administration which is supposed to be
after the project starts and they're
into work. Fussen O'Neal was supposed to
advise us on what the contractor was
doing or not doing. We haven't even
gotten to that point. So my my issue was
why are we as a community paying for
those services?
>> So is Fuss and O'Neal expecting that
check or are they
>> No. plus and O'Neal. There's there's so
many problems with this this right now
as it stands that yes, they're expecting
it, Heather, but are they they've gotten
paid for what is it? Uh 90% of the whole
pro uh the whole proposed proposal
they've provided the community and the
town. So
>> I think they got paid 42,850.
So there's 3,7750
remaining.
>> Yeah. 5.
I mean, and and and listen,
>> the town also, just so everybody
understands, doesn't wait 30 days to pay
stuff. Normally, we pay stuff within the
first 10 days. You know, you receive the
the bill and that the check check runs
are every Friday. Every other Friday.
Every Friday.
It might be every other Friday. But they
get paid. And so, I don't feel bad
holding this money. Honestly, as a
business owner, I I want an answer to be
really honest. That's all I want, just
an answer. Where are we? What is the
expectation moving forward?
And I think Jodianne even said that if
this project moves in a different
direction, they're going to reimburse us
for the $12,000 at the end of this
contract. That doesn't work for me. uh
you know she said this at a board of
education meeting that or board of
finance but one of the meetings we were
at and you know that Fussen O'Neal was
gonna reimburse us the $12,000 for the
payment on this after we pivot to the
the you know the build part of this
project and if that's the point if that
was the answer that I got I'm like I'll
hold the money until we figure out which
way we're pivoting
right we don't have to waste a lot more
time on this one you either sit there as
a board and vote to accept the check or
not.
>> I say move on.
>> All right, we'll move on for now. Um I
wanted to bring it up. All right, we've
we've we've I think had what we can say
at this point and as I said before, I
personally do not want to take that sort
of nuclear option step of, you know,
saying no, cut the check uh over your
objections. I'd like to try to get to
yes without doing that. Uh, new business
6A added to the agenda by Liz. Um,
request for information.
>> Yeah. So, last month we talked about um
concerns I had about the um over
expenditure the transfers
um from the
>> thing.
>> Yeah. from from salaries and benefits to
HBAC
and um
we talked about it. Jodianne said she
would get information about it. So an
initial email went out and it was kind
of mixed with a lot of other stuff. So I
said this is going to get lost in the
shuffle. I know it is. So, I sent a a
new request uh a follow-up I think on
the 16th saying, you know, just kind of
regrouping specifying exactly what it
was I would like to see because I'm
curious about exactly everything that
was paid for under the HBAC line. Um,
that was on January 16th. On the 19th, I
got a response from Valerie asking for
clarification. I responded back with
specifics that I'd like copies. I'd like
to see the invoices and receipts for the
expenditures totaling 127,468
under the 430 2610
2621 account ID. Um, and I asked I
wanted to get it by Friday, last Friday,
so I'd have a chance to look at it
before our meeting. Um, didn't get it.
Um, and I emailed her again on Monday
just for like a status
and nothing. I I haven't received
anything yet. So
>> So I mean
>> my only my only question here is you
know all the invoices and checks and
stuff.
Can we start with the explanation of
what occurred and then move before we go
into roing you know every every check
here? What what happened is my first
>> question. So, I I was just so I was
reviewing the the school's transfers,
>> right,
>> from like last year's budget,
>> right?
>> And there was 200 $259,000 of transfers.
And I noticed that there was over
$12,000ish
of transfers to the HVAC account. No,
not 12,000. I
>> was going to say a lot more than
>> Yeah, 120. And I'm like, that's odd. The
first thing that I would say is, you
know, can we get a just at least a
verbal rundown and an explanation uh
from
as from Jod from whoever
for what that was for? You know, the
second piece that you asked for was
really kind of intensive, all the
checks, all the all the invoices and
everything like that. But can we at
least start with the what happened part?
>> I mean,
>> and I I have that information for you.
So, just I just want to intervene too.
And I wanted to say I did look into it.
So I did say at the last meeting I'd
look into it. I wasn't here last year.
Didn't know what you know. So I did look
into it. I also want to say too we're
also in the middle of budget season,
right? So a request for every single
invoice would be very very labor
intensive. So I agree with Robert of
like let's start. So, I did bring and
they also also Liz I um I just want to
also throw out too that lately we've
been getting as employees we've been
getting a lot of different requests from
different members. So, and my bad. I I I
want to be helpful. So, I said email me.
But we realized that requests were not
being streamlined and somebody was
asking me for something. Somebody was
asking the secretary for something. So,
we did decide to streamline requests
through the superintendent. So, it's
it's done.
>> Yeah. No, I'm just saying that. I'm just
letting you know. And then um with that,
when I uh met with her um and pulled the
invoices, we we said that again, we'd
really not again, but we'd like the
board of ed to go through it first. And
again, we're talking about proper
processes and procedures. So, when I
talked about that, so I did I'm I'm I
brought up the concern or the questions
and then um you know, Val said, "Yeah,
go ahead. pull the stuff, but let's
bring it to our DOE and present that.
Um, because she just as she thinks it's
better practice to share things first
with the board of education and then the
board of finance so that the board of
education members don't feel like they
don't have the information on the budget
that they're overseeing and we have two
new members. So, I can give you the
rundown. So, um,
>> can I ask one question before you get in
there? Cuz you said the
>> Did the board of education not vote on
this transfer?
>> No, they did. They followed proper
procedure. It was shared, but it was
last year. And we also have two new
board of ed members. So, they don't
necessarily know about this. So, I we
wanted to bring it if it's a concern um
if there are particular concerns that um
I thought and I wanted to ask at today's
meeting. So what I have prep prepared
for you guys tonight is just a general
overview and also I wanted to ask were
there was there anything in particular
you wanted to know about those as we go
through them um and then I can relay
that to um the board of education and
val if there are particular concerns. So
do you want me to run details? Yeah,
let's let's go through and talk about
what happened.
>> You got
>> Yeah. So, your adopted their their
adopted budget for that line um was
15,000
um at the end of the year. I don't I I
don't have the date, but it was May. It
wasn't the very very end of the year. Um
the transferred 112,46803
was transferred into that account.
um the total expenditures then um sorry
so then that account that line item with
that transfer had 127,468
and then the expenditures for that
account were 84 I'll just give you rough
numbers 84,000
and then 43
roughly 43,000 was not expended so what
I learned concerned was that um you know
looking at you know in the end of the
year transfers are common. I know you
know that um I know at this uh town
level that happens as well. Um so when
they were looking at where they had
money and they were looking at their
needs the board decided they needed um
they wanted to be prepared for any more
HVAC repairs. Um there also was um the
state law has new air quality um uh
regulations and you have to do um uh you
have a certain amount of time to do a
big HVAC or air quality evaluation.
um bigger districts that you could do
like one school a year, you have a
certain amount of time, but the board
decided um to uh because they were in
good shape budgetarily to um do that
that last year. It was something it
would have had it has to be it has to be
done. So they decided to do it. That was
a big bulk that was um looks like 22,000
and then another 2500.
So, a big uh chunk of that transfer in
was used for that. Um, and then looking
at the other expenses, and again, I'd be
very happy to share them. I just wanted
to bring them to the board of ed first
so PE they're not getting questions from
people before they've been presented the
information. Um, but you know, it's
various. So, uh, some air conditioning
repair.
Um, our service agreement, and that's
the the normal budget. So, it's a
service agreement of, uh, $8,000 for
regular maintenance.
Um,
>> this I'm finding
>> How much was the AC repair?
>> It's hard to follow.
>> Well, I will I I'm very happy to share
it. Again, I'm I'm trying to again
follow the proper protocols and make so
once we we're going to share this with
the board of ed at the next meeting and
discuss it and then I could share with
you, you know, the the location of the
video where it's discussed as well as
the list after that.
Jody, I know a timing issue.
>> What I've got so far is a is a is an air
quality evaluation for 24,500
AC repair of question mark. What was
what was that?
>> Well, they're all different ones. So, we
have here's a,300.
Um,
actually new I think new AC room. Uh,
one room got new AC. I believe the other
air conditionings were covered by a
grant several years ago and there was
like one class one or two classrooms
left. So, uh, another classroom got AC.
Um,
we got a pump replacement.
>> So, the rest are all really little,
honestly. There's an expansion tank
replacement that was 4700.
Um,
>> how many expenditures are you talking
about? the list there's probably about
>> and I and and
I could I even get like a detailed like
a spreadsheet of all those expenses,
>> you know, and the names of the company
that I mean
>> once you had a chance to go through it
with your board, could you give us a
spreadsheet on that?
>> Absolutely. Absolutely.
>> Yeah. I mean along the lines of what
we've been talking about with our other
stuff. All right. 24,500.
Okay. That was the uh eval for air
quality, you know, duh, just so we can
see it. And then it'll tally up. I think
you said 84,000 was actually expended
out of the account.
>> Yes.
Yes. And were there Liz, were there
specific
>> look at it and say, "Okay, that tallies
to 84 me."
>> Yeah. Were there specific questions that
you had though or No,
>> I wanted to know exactly how much was
spent
>> specifically line by line
>> for that total dollar amount.
>> Okay.
>> And I mean I bring it up again because
you're already over budget in your in
that same line
>> this year.
>> Well, you're not over budget.
>> The HVAC seems to be ongoing. Can I
>> So 17,000 you've uh adopted is the
adopted budget. you've already expended
15,000 and you have 18 or 8,000
encumbered. So, this line is a concern
for me and yes, I would like to to see a
line by line reporting of all those
expenses.
>> Um, and
>> is that is that unreasonable for a board
of finance to ask for?
>> No, I just want to I just want to make
sure the board of ed sees it first.
That's it.
>> Okay. So, I mean that that fine, but
yeah, I think we do want
>> to see I mean Liz has a point here that
if you're consistently overexpending
something, you know, something's off in
in the, you know, something you need to
look at and of course it's the board of
eds, the first cut at that is the board
of eds that they need to look at their
budget and say, gosh, we're we're we
keep underfunding this line and then dig
into why. You know, what's going on with
the HVAC system? Is it really just a
question of, you know, in this one year,
obviously the eval if that costs almost
$25,000, it's going to blow your budget
up. I I get that if that's a once off,
but how often does that need to happen?
That kind of thing.
But, you know, I I think what we'd like
to see is a chart that, you know, can so
we can look at it ourselves and just
say, "Okay, that tallies to 84K
and here's what it was spent on." I
mean, I think that's
>> reason
127,000. Well, the transfer I thought
and if maybe Jody correct me if I
misunderstood what you said. They
transferred 120 some odd thousand
>> 112
>> but may didn't maybe didn't spend it
all.
>> Correct.
>> Correct. Okay. And that's and that's
fine. Two two things for me. And so you
can
>> What was the offset to the HVAC account?
What did you transfer the money from?
Which budget line item? Um
>> I believe Liz said I I don't have the
sheet with me. I think it was salaries
or something to that effect.
So salary dollars to a repair and
maintenance fund.
>> I believe that's okay. That's fine. I
got it. No problem. Can you do me and
this board a favor?
Do you have the 2025 detailed custom
expenditure report that has gone through
the most recent process that would show
us the $136,000
um uh underspend because that would be
really helpful for me to sit there and
compare it to what you you going to give
us moving forward and I I would love to
see that report. So it's the report that
you you provided for this this meeting
just from last year. Is that possible to
get it to all
>> the final budget? I can provide you. I
mean do you want to see the final
budget? You'll see where every
>> No, no, no. I want to see the report out
of your system out of Edmmonds
uh that you provided us here like these
reports these pages. So you gave us a
2026 custom expenditure report summary
and then you gave us the detailed
report. Could you do that for last year?
Yeah, the like the June 30th, you're
asking for the end of their June 30th
expenditure report.
>> Perfect. That would be very helpful.
>> Sure.
>> Thanks.
>> And email it to the whole board as soon
as you can do that.
>> Yeah.
>> All right.
>> Next week I can do it.
>> All right. No problem. Thank you.
>> Okay. Um, personally, I think that's
progress. Um, I think let's see what we
get and we can talk about it further if
if needed. Uh, but you know, I think
going forward this is the sort of stuff
we need to hopefully get accustomed to
each other back and forth. Um, that's
not terribly articulate, but it's 9:00.
Okay, so
if we can move on.
Um, liaison reports. I don't have
anything from CIP, although I think
we're have an upcoming meeting because
we do finally have a request for
something we have to look at, but I
don't have anything from this past
month. Uh, does anyone else have any
liazing they can bring up? I mean, I
already talked about the the school
project. I don't know if really a formal
liaison there, but and Bill, that's kind
of your role, but we already talked
about it.
>> We already talked about it. Yep.
>> Okay.
>> Very good. Uh, meeting minutes.
I I make the motion that we approve the
minutes from 111925 regular scheduled
meeting.
>> Uh which one?
>> Uh 111925.
>> Second.
>> Okay. Uh all in favor?
Yes. Okay.
I mean, sorry, I didn't hear any further
discussion. Sorry. Um, okay. Motion
passes. Uh, 70, I believe, if there's
unless there's any nos or abstensions.
Okay. Uh, that was just the one, right?
So, we have the other December 17th.
>> Yeah.
>> Yep.
>> Um, so the December one, I noticed a
couple things. Um, well, one, a little
misspelling in new business number six.
Um, the second line says back
reconciliations should be bank
reconciliations.
Um,
>> I'm sorry. What page are you on, Liz?
>> I'm sorry. Um, it's item six, which
would be page two of three.
>> It's the second page of the December
meeting.
>> It's uh I'm sorry, 6B.
>> The second line says uh BOE in monthly
packet back reconciliations. It should
be bank.
>> Gotcha.
>> Um,
and so how was this how was this
prepared? Was this prepared by that AI
thing or was this prepared? Do you know
Jeff? Was this prepared by the um
the note our note person?
>> Uh,
that is a good question. It's something
that has to really be researched as to
how we do this. Right now, I believe
it's uh done through um
Marina Marina who is the u the clerk and
she takes the transcription that's made
from this meeting and prepares notes uh
prepares minutes. That's what I believe
is happening.
>> Okay. Um I I kind I
the whole discussion about what we just
talked about the whole discussion that
we discussed um requesting this HBAC
information doesn't really seem to be
I don't I don't think it's documented
very well.
I wanted to add
something to it.
>> Okay. So like where it says where it
says would like to see what was
purchased for HC repair after 112,000
was
>> was transferred not completed
>> should say transferred was transferred
and um something like uh discussion
ensued
Liz asked for rece purchase orders for
the
uh
15,000 that was budgeted plus the
112,000 that was transferred. Jody uh
Jodianne agreed
to look into it and get the information
on that transfer to us.
>> Yeah, that that does need to get well at
the very least that the the completed
thing has to be fixed. Mhm.
>> Uh, so yes.
>> Do you want me to type Do you want me to
type that? Like who would fix this? I
could
>> if you want if there's an email you
could send to the appropriate person to
say, you know, here are my thoughts on
on that. That might be the way to go.
Um,
>> okay. Do we want to make a motion a
motion to add
>> to add that? and I will take it upon
myself to figure out how to do that if
everybody agrees with it.
>> Sure.
>> Why don't you make the corrections and
bring it back next month and have
>> Yeah, we'll just vote on We'll just uh
push this off till next month rather
than
>> Yeah, we'll table it for now.
>> And we can talk about that. But yeah,
fair enough. Um it does need a little
clean up. Um, by the way, I just
happened to notice in looking at at this
the the the things that we were curious
about at the check register are listed
here.
>> Spring Aby's Contracting and Barton and
Lugus.
>> Ah,
>> where is that? Where is that?
>> 5B.
>> Oh, no way.
Oh, yes.
>> Oh, questions regarding spring.
>> Spring Aby's contract.
>> We were right about spring. I'm just
pointing out have memo column in report.
That's true.
>> So it's
>> say ditto.
>> Yeah. But anyway, we will we will go
ahead and uh come back to that issue and
come back to those minutes uh in our
next meeting. That's
>> So the action is Liz, you're going to
forward that to Marina in the office or
>> No, I think I'm going to I think I'm
going to type up the note, send it to
the board, and then we'll vote it in
next month.
>> Gotcha. Okay. That seems reasonable to
me.
>> Yeah. In the meantime, I'll I'll also
try to find how to get in touch with
Mariana.
>> Marina. Yeah.
>> Marina.
>> Um and I do I do hope it's a person and
not just a hi.
>> I think it is.
>> Um anyway, um okay. So, if there's
something further on that, uh we're at
board open discussion. If there's
anything further, I mean, I'm kind of
talked out. Anybody else got anything
else they wanted to bring up?
Okay. Um,
very good.
Correspondence. Does any have anything
on that?
Okay.
And public speak. All right. Let's go. I
think we have a couple. We had some
people join and whatnot. So, all right.
Um, well, I'll I guess I'll start with
Jeff. Technically, he's a sort of an
expert member, but whatever. Uh Jeff, do
you have anything further to add?
You're muted.
>> I'm a I'm a non voting uh
>> non voting member, so you don't count.
>> There you go. Don't count.
>> Bye-bye.
>> Okay. No, no need for you. We're done
with you. Kidding. All right. Uh Marcy,
>> no thanks. I'm good. Thank you.
>> Okay, Melissa.
>> All set. Thank you.
Joanne,
>> I promise super quick because it's just
important. I promise. Um, only because
you have so many new people on there and
I think the history of what we've tried
to do in the past is important for them
to know. So, just that little talk that
you guys all talked about with the way
the budgets presented with revenue, you
know, um, you know, showing it as all
the money that comes in from the grants.
If you all look back in your emails,
you'll see many from me with little
drafts of what we did send to the board
of ed and requested. So, there were
meetings that were had for two years.
So, just keep that in mind. We have been
trying this and we think it's important.
Liz is showing, you know, agreeing with
me. We did get those reports from the
board of ed in the past with the grant
little info on the side and then boom,
done with that. Just want the new
members to know that it has been
attempted so that they're up to speed on
that. Um, so hopefully everybody can
push forward. The other thing that I
just really feel, you know, I do agree
with Mr. Maguire on this one thing with
the contract that was signed with Fuss
and O'Neal just pinpointing exact steps
for 48,600.
And it just seems silly to me that if we
paid for that expense as a town, we
wanted that expense. Let's just do it.
They can pivot in the construction. I
don't care. You know, do all the change
orders. It's just it was like design
plans. Fuss and O'Neal who know their
stuff are going to oversee the RFP
process. Boom. We don't need people to
come in. And I love everybody, you know,
people. This is not personal because
I've had good conversations with
Caitlyn. But if we're paying Fuss and
O'Neal, we don't need Caitlyn to run
around trying to get contractors to bid
on a town project. Just follow the
letter of the law. There was like Jeff
said, three or four steps. Let's just do
it. I mean, if the project pivots to
design build, that's fine for all of you
that understand that and I'm getting to
learn it. That's all. Thank you. Just
two cents for a history lesson.
>> Thank you, Joanne.
>> All right. Uh, don't think I'm missing
anybody. Um,
Lisa, it was good to meet you.
>> Thank you for being here. Look forward
to
>> working with you in the future.
>> Thanks.
>> All right.
in that. Anybody want to move to
adjourn?
>> I'll move to hang out.
>> Let's hang out and chat.
>> Yeah. All right. Louis's motion to
adjourn. Anybody second that?
>> I'll second it.
>> All right. Thank you, Kim.
>> You're welcome.
>> All in favor?
>> I.
>> All right. So, we adjourn at 9:16 p.m.